README.md, before:

# Redshift Migration Agent 🚀

AI-powered agent to migrate AWS Redshift Provisioned clusters to Serverless with zero downtime.

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/releases)
[![Deploy to AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Deploy%20to-AWS-orange?logo=amazon-aws)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent?style=social)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/stargazers)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent?style=social)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/network/members)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/issues)

## 🎯 What It Does

This AI agent helps you migrate from AWS Redshift Provisioned clusters to Redshift Serverless by:

- ✅ Extracting all cluster configurations automatically
- ✅ Creating snapshots and restoring to Serverless
- ✅ Migrating IAM roles, VPC settings, and security groups
- ✅ Mapping parameter groups to Serverless equivalents
- ✅ Migrating scheduled queries from EventBridge to Serverless
- ✅ Carrying over maintenance track and cross-region snapshot copy settings
- ✅ Migrating usage limits with intelligent recommendations for Serverless
- ✅ Providing conversational guidance throughout the process

## 🚀 Quick Deploy (3 Minutes)

### One-Command Deploy

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent.git
cd redshift-migration-agent

# Deploy (that's it!)
./deploy
```

### Manual Deploy

```bash
# Using SAM CLI
sam build --use-container
sam deploy --guided
```

See [Deployment Guide](docs/deployment/DEPLOY_NOW.md) for detailed instructions.

## 💬 How to Use

### Natural Conversation Interface (Recommended)

```bash
# Start chatting with the agent
./chat
```

Then just ask naturally:
```
You: List my Redshift clusters in us-east-2
Agent: [Shows clusters]

You: Tell me about the first one
Agent: [Shows details]

You: Migrate it to serverless
Agent: [Guides through migration]
```

See [Chat Guide](docs/guides/START_CHATTING.md) for more.

### Via AWS CLI

```bash
# Add yourself to the authorized users group
aws iam add-user-to-group \
  --user-name YOUR_USERNAME \
  --group-name RedshiftMigrationAgentUsers

# Use the agent
aws lambda invoke \
  --function-name redshift-migration-agent \
  --cli-binary-format raw-in-base64-out \
  --payload '{"message":"List my Redshift clusters in us-east-2"}' \
  response.json

cat response.json
```

## 🎬 Example Conversations

```
You: "List all my Redshift clusters in us-east-2"
Agent: [Lists all clusters with details]

You: "Extract configuration from cluster prod-db-1"
Agent: [Extracts IAM roles, VPC, parameters, etc.]

You: "List scheduled queries for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Shows all EventBridge scheduled queries]

You: "Migrate cluster prod-db-1 to serverless with snapshot"
Agent: [Guides through migration process]

You: "Migrate scheduled queries from prod-db-1 to my-serverless-wg"
Agent: [Migrates all scheduled queries to serverless workgroup]

You: "Get snapshot copy settings for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Shows cross-region snapshot copy configuration]

You: "Configure snapshot copy for my-namespace to us-west-2 with 7 day retention"
Agent: [Configures cross-region snapshot copy for serverless]

You: "Get usage limits for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Shows usage limits configured on the cluster]

You: "Migrate usage limits from prod-db-1 to my-serverless-wg"
Agent: [Provides recommendations for serverless usage limits]

You: "What's the status of my migration?"
Agent: [Checks and reports status]
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
User Request
    ↓
AWS Lambda (Agent)
    ↓
Amazon Bedrock (Claude AI)
    ↓
AWS Redshift APIs
    ↓
Migration Complete
```

## 💰 Cost Estimate

- **Lambda**: ~$0-20/month (pay per request)
- **Bedrock**: ~$3-10/month (based on usage)
- **Total**: ~$5-30/month

First 1M Lambda requests are free!

## 🔒 Security

- ✅ IAM authentication required
- ✅ No public access
- ✅ Least privilege permissions
- ✅ CloudWatch logging
- ✅ Audit trail via CloudTrail

## 📋 Prerequisites

- AWS Account
- IAM permissions to deploy Lambda and create IAM roles
- Bedrock model access enabled (Claude Sonnet 4.5)

### Enable Bedrock Access

1. Go to [Bedrock Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock)
2. Click "Model access"
3. Enable "Claude 4.5 Sonnet"
4. Wait 2-3 minutes

## 🛠️ Features

### Automated Configuration Extraction
- IAM roles and default role designation
- VPC configuration (subnets, security groups)
- Parameter groups (10+ parameters)
- Scheduled queries (EventBridge Rules & Scheduler)
- Snapshot schedules
- Tags and logging

### Intelligent Migration
- Automatic snapshot creation
- Smart parameter mapping
- VPC and security group migration
- Scheduled query migration to serverless workgroups
- Price-performance optimization

### Scheduled Query Migration
- Extract queries from EventBridge Rules and Scheduler
- Recreate queries to target serverless workgroups
- Preserve schedule expressions and query logic
- Automatic IAM role creation for query execution
- Dry-run mode to preview changes

### Maintenance and Snapshot Settings
- Extract maintenance track and window from provisioned clusters
- Get cross-region snapshot copy configuration
- Configure snapshot copy for serverless namespaces
- Preserve retention periods and KMS encryption settings
- Note: Serverless uses automatic maintenance (no manual windows)

### Usage Limits
- Extract usage limits from provisioned clusters (spectrum, concurrency-scaling, datasharing)
- Get intelligent recommendations for serverless limits (RPU-hours)
- Create usage limits for serverless workgroups
- Support for daily, weekly, and monthly periods
- Configurable breach actions (log, emit-metric, deactivate)

### Conversational Interface
- Natural language queries
- Step-by-step guidance
- Error explanation and troubleshooting
- Best practice recommendations

## 📚 Documentation

- [Quick Start - Chat Interface](docs/guides/START_CHATTING.md) - Start here!
- [Deployment Guide](docs/deployment/DEPLOY_NOW.md) - Deploy the agent
- [Chat Guide](docs/guides/CHAT_GUIDE.md) - Complete chat documentation
- [Scheduled Query Migration](docs/guides/SCHEDULED_QUERIES.md) - Migrate scheduled queries
- [Maintenance & Snapshot Settings](docs/guides/MAINTENANCE_AND_SNAPSHOTS.md) - Migrate maintenance and snapshot copy
- [Usage Limits Migration](docs/guides/USAGE_LIMITS.md) - Migrate and configure usage limits
- [Security Setup](docs/guides/SECURE_ACCESS.md) - IAM and access control
- [Project Structure](PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md) - Navigate the codebase
- [Migration Patterns](docs/QUICKSTART.md) - Common migration scenarios
- [Troubleshooting](docs/deployment/TROUBLESHOOT_LAMBDA.md) - Fix common issues

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## 🆘 Support

- 📖 [Documentation](docs/)
- 🐛 [Report Issues](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/issues)
- 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/discussions)

## 🌟 Star History

If this project helped you, please ⭐ star it on GitHub!

## 📊 Stats

- ⚡ Average migration time: 15-30 minutes
- 🎯 Success rate: 95%+
- 💾 Supports clusters up to 100+ nodes
- 🌍 Available in all AWS regions

## 🔗 Related Projects

- [AWS Redshift Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/)
- [Strands Agents SDK](https://github.com/strands-agents/sdk-python)
- [Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/)

---

**Made with ❤️ for the AWS community**

Deploy now and start migrating! 🚀

Commit message:

Add WLM queue detection and multi-workgroup migration support
New Features:
- Added get_cluster_wlm_queues tool to extract WLM queue configuration
- Added create_multiple_workgroups_from_wlm tool to create one workgroup per queue
- Agent now detects multiple WLM queues and asks user for migration preference
- Option 1: Single workgroup (all workloads together)
- Option 2: Multiple workgroups (one per queue for workload isolation)
- Automatic workgroup naming: {cluster-id}-{queue-name}
- Intelligent workgroup sizing based on queue concurrency

Data Model Updates:
- Added WLMQueue class with name, concurrency, memory_percent, user_group, query_group, priority, timeout
- Added wlm_queues field to ProvisionedClusterConfig
- Added _extract_wlm_queues method to provisioned extractor

Agent Behavior:
- ALWAYS checks WLM configuration before migration
- If multiple queues found, STOPS and ASKS USER for preference
- Explains benefits of single vs multiple workgroups
- Creates workgroups with appropriate sizing (128-512 RPUs based on concurrency)
- All workgroups share the same namespace (data)

Documentation:
- Created comprehensive guide: docs/guides/WLM_QUEUES.md
- Updated README.md with WLM queue migration examples
- Updated system prompt with WLM queue guidance

Workgroup Sizing Logic:
- Base capacity: 128 RPUs
- Concurrency factor: queue_concurrency / 5 (normalized)
- Max capacity: base_capacity × concurrency_factor
- Range: 128-512 RPUs (clamped)

Use Cases:
- Single workgroup: Simpler management, lower cost, no isolation needed
- Multiple workgroups: Workload isolation, independent scaling, enterprise workloads

Technical Details:
- Extracts WLM config from wlm_json_configuration parameter
- Skips default queue (no name)
- Preserves queue names, concurrency, memory allocation
- Creates workgroups with VPC and security group settings from source cluster

README.md, after:

# Redshift Migration Agent 🚀

AI-powered agent to migrate AWS Redshift Provisioned clusters to Serverless with zero downtime.

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/releases)
[![Deploy to AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Deploy%20to-AWS-orange?logo=amazon-aws)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent?style=social)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/stargazers)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent?style=social)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/network/members)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent)](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/issues)

## 🎯 What It Does

This AI agent helps you migrate from AWS Redshift Provisioned clusters to Redshift Serverless by:

- ✅ Extracting all cluster configurations automatically
- ✅ Creating snapshots and restoring to Serverless
- ✅ Migrating IAM roles, VPC settings, and security groups
- ✅ Mapping parameter groups to Serverless equivalents
- ✅ Migrating scheduled queries from EventBridge to Serverless
- ✅ Carrying over maintenance track and cross-region snapshot copy settings
- ✅ Migrating usage limits with intelligent recommendations for Serverless
- ✅ Detecting multiple WLM queues and offering single or multi-workgroup migration
- ✅ Providing conversational guidance throughout the process

## 🚀 Quick Deploy (3 Minutes)

### One-Command Deploy

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent.git
cd redshift-migration-agent

# Deploy (that's it!)
./deploy
```

### Manual Deploy

```bash
# Using SAM CLI
sam build --use-container
sam deploy --guided
```

See [Deployment Guide](docs/deployment/DEPLOY_NOW.md) for detailed instructions.

## 💬 How to Use

### Natural Conversation Interface (Recommended)

```bash
# Start chatting with the agent
./chat
```

Then just ask naturally:
```
You: List my Redshift clusters in us-east-2
Agent: [Shows clusters]

You: Tell me about the first one
Agent: [Shows details]

You: Migrate it to serverless
Agent: [Guides through migration]
```

See [Chat Guide](docs/guides/START_CHATTING.md) for more.

### Via AWS CLI

```bash
# Add yourself to the authorized users group
aws iam add-user-to-group \
  --user-name YOUR_USERNAME \
  --group-name RedshiftMigrationAgentUsers

# Use the agent
aws lambda invoke \
  --function-name redshift-migration-agent \
  --cli-binary-format raw-in-base64-out \
  --payload '{"message":"List my Redshift clusters in us-east-2"}' \
  response.json

cat response.json
```

## 🎬 Example Conversations

```
You: "List all my Redshift clusters in us-east-2"
Agent: [Lists all clusters with details]

You: "Extract configuration from cluster prod-db-1"
Agent: [Extracts IAM roles, VPC, parameters, etc.]

You: "List scheduled queries for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Shows all EventBridge scheduled queries]

You: "Migrate cluster prod-db-1 to serverless with snapshot"
Agent: [Guides through migration process]

You: "Migrate scheduled queries from prod-db-1 to my-serverless-wg"
Agent: [Migrates all scheduled queries to serverless workgroup]

You: "Get snapshot copy settings for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Shows cross-region snapshot copy configuration]

You: "Configure snapshot copy for my-namespace to us-west-2 with 7 day retention"
Agent: [Configures cross-region snapshot copy for serverless]

You: "Get usage limits for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Shows usage limits configured on the cluster]

You: "Migrate usage limits from prod-db-1 to my-serverless-wg"
Agent: [Provides recommendations for serverless usage limits]

You: "Get WLM queues for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Shows WLM queue configuration]

You: "Create multiple workgroups from WLM queues for prod-db-1"
Agent: [Creates one workgroup per WLM queue for workload isolation]

You: "What's the status of my migration?"
Agent: [Checks and reports status]
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
User Request
    ↓
AWS Lambda (Agent)
    ↓
Amazon Bedrock (Claude AI)
    ↓
AWS Redshift APIs
    ↓
Migration Complete
```

## 💰 Cost Estimate

- **Lambda**: ~$0-20/month (pay per request)
- **Bedrock**: ~$3-10/month (based on usage)
- **Total**: ~$5-30/month

First 1M Lambda requests are free!

## 🔒 Security

- ✅ IAM authentication required
- ✅ No public access
- ✅ Least privilege permissions
- ✅ CloudWatch logging
- ✅ Audit trail via CloudTrail

## 📋 Prerequisites

- AWS Account
- IAM permissions to deploy Lambda and create IAM roles
- Bedrock model access enabled (Claude Sonnet 4.5)

### Enable Bedrock Access

1. Go to [Bedrock Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/bedrock)
2. Click "Model access"
3. Enable "Claude 4.5 Sonnet"
4. Wait 2-3 minutes

## 🛠️ Features

### Automated Configuration Extraction
- IAM roles and default role designation
- VPC configuration (subnets, security groups)
- Parameter groups (10+ parameters)
- Scheduled queries (EventBridge Rules & Scheduler)
- Snapshot schedules
- Tags and logging

### Intelligent Migration
- Automatic snapshot creation
- Smart parameter mapping
- VPC and security group migration
- Scheduled query migration to serverless workgroups
- Price-performance optimization

### Scheduled Query Migration
- Extract queries from EventBridge Rules and Scheduler
- Recreate queries to target serverless workgroups
- Preserve schedule expressions and query logic
- Automatic IAM role creation for query execution
- Dry-run mode to preview changes

### Maintenance and Snapshot Settings
- Extract maintenance track and window from provisioned clusters
- Get cross-region snapshot copy configuration
- Configure snapshot copy for serverless namespaces
- Preserve retention periods and KMS encryption settings
- Note: Serverless uses automatic maintenance (no manual windows)

### Usage Limits
- Extract usage limits from provisioned clusters (spectrum, concurrency-scaling, datasharing)
- Get intelligent recommendations for serverless limits (RPU-hours)
- Create usage limits for serverless workgroups
- Support for daily, weekly, and monthly periods
- Configurable breach actions (log, emit-metric, deactivate)

### WLM Queue Migration
- Detect multiple WLM queues in provisioned clusters
- Ask user: single workgroup or multiple workgroups?
- Create one workgroup per WLM queue for workload isolation
- Automatic workgroup sizing based on queue concurrency
- Naming convention: {cluster-id}-{queue-name}
- All workgroups share the same namespace (data)

### Conversational Interface
- Natural language queries
- Step-by-step guidance
- Error explanation and troubleshooting
- Best practice recommendations

## 📚 Documentation

- [Quick Start - Chat Interface](docs/guides/START_CHATTING.md) - Start here!
- [Deployment Guide](docs/deployment/DEPLOY_NOW.md) - Deploy the agent
- [Chat Guide](docs/guides/CHAT_GUIDE.md) - Complete chat documentation
- [Scheduled Query Migration](docs/guides/SCHEDULED_QUERIES.md) - Migrate scheduled queries
- [Maintenance & Snapshot Settings](docs/guides/MAINTENANCE_AND_SNAPSHOTS.md) - Migrate maintenance and snapshot copy
- [Usage Limits Migration](docs/guides/USAGE_LIMITS.md) - Migrate and configure usage limits
- [WLM Queue Migration](docs/guides/WLM_QUEUES.md) - Handle multiple WLM queues
- [Security Setup](docs/guides/SECURE_ACCESS.md) - IAM and access control
- [Project Structure](PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md) - Navigate the codebase
- [Migration Patterns](docs/QUICKSTART.md) - Common migration scenarios
- [Troubleshooting](docs/deployment/TROUBLESHOOT_LAMBDA.md) - Fix common issues

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## 🆘 Support

- 📖 [Documentation](docs/)
- 🐛 [Report Issues](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/issues)
- 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/milindoke/redshift-migration-agent/discussions)

## 🌟 Star History

If this project helped you, please ⭐ star it on GitHub!

## 📊 Stats

- ⚡ Average migration time: 15-30 minutes
- 🎯 Success rate: 95%+
- 💾 Supports clusters up to 100+ nodes
- 🌍 Available in all AWS regions

## 🔗 Related Projects

- [AWS Redshift Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/)
- [Strands Agents SDK](https://github.com/strands-agents/sdk-python)
- [Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/)

---

**Made with ❤️ for the AWS community**

Deploy now and start migrating! 🚀
